In this video will get started with JUnit.
Let's start with some real simple examples for unit testing.
So at the moment,
we'll focus on the JUnit fundamentals for testing.
So we'll learn how to define a test, JUnit Assertions,
and running the test.
And again,
we'll start with some very simple coding examples.
The main focus is learning the fundamentals
and the mechanics and also later on,
we'll discuss techniques
such as Test Driven-Development and so on.
So a lot of good stuff coming.
So we'll start slow,
and then we'll move into more advanced items.
Now we'll start with this example here,
DemoUtils has a method called add takes two numbers
and we'll add those numbers and send back a result
and then we'll test this method here.
We'll do an add on two comma four
and check to see if the result is equal to six.
And we'll also call the method again
and we'll add one comma nine
and then we'll see if the result is equal to 10.
And so here's the code that we're going to test.
We have this class here, DemoUtils
the method add takes into integers
and it returns the result.
Here's our Development Process.
So in the first step,
we're going to add the Maven dependencies for JUnit.
Then we'll create a test package, we'll create a unit test
and then finally, we'll run the unit test.
Step one of adding the Maven dependencies for JUnit.
So in our Maven pom file
we need to add this given dependency.
So we get the group ID, the artifact ID, and aversion.
Also notice here we have the scope.
We have the scope set to test.
So what does this mean?
Well, it means that this dependency
is only for test purposes,
only when we're running the unit test.
This dependency is not required
for normal execution of the application.
Now, moving ahead to step two of creating a test package.
So the code that testing is located in a package
com.luv2code.junitdemo
and we can see it here in our project setup.
So there's the package
and then there's the actual application code
or class DemoUtils.
Now a convention is to create the test classes
and a similar package structure under slash test.
So we have our actual package com.luv2code.junit
and then we have the unit test DemoUtilsTest.
Now this is not a hard requirement
it's merely a convention
helps with the organization of test classes.
It makes it easy to find test classes
when you join a new team or a new project
and also it handles special edge cases
for accessing protected class members.
So this is the approach that you'll see used
on real time projects in the real world.
Next, we have step three of creating a unit test.
In general unit tests have the following structure.
You have a Set Up, Execute and also Assert.
So during the setup phase
that's when you create an instance of the class to test
and then for execute is when you actually call
the method you want to test
and then finally assert is when you check the result
and verify that it is the expected result.
All righty, so let's look at a coding example here
of our unit test.
So we have some imports from the junit API.
We have this class DemoUtilsTest.
And notice here it's under that test structure
that we set up earlier.
Then I had this method here called testEqualsAndNotEquals.
I make use of the annotation
to say that this is a test method.
And then the test method, you can actually have any name.
All you need here is really just the at test annotation.
And then here we'll do our setup, execute and assert.
So as far as the setup, I'll create an instance
of the class that I want to test, DemoUtils.
I have the expected value of six,
and then I execute.
So I called the method that I want to test.
So I'll call demoUtils.add2,4 that'll return a value here
and that's the actual value of that given test.
And then finally I perform an assert.
So here I say, assert equals expected comma actual
and then I give a optional error message.
So here what I'm doing is I'm checking the actual result
in verifying that it is the expected result.
Basically here in this assertion,
seeing if those two values are equal
and if they are equal then that test will pass
two plus four should equal six.
Now we actually run the unit test
and we can run the unit test in our IDE
and we'll see the results right in the IDE
and here we can see that the test passed because it's green
and also it'll tell you the test passed
and also how many tests passed.
So in this case we have a test case set up,
we're testing DemoUtils.
We ran the test case of two comma four
and we checked to see if the value was equal to six
and that case it was true.
It worked out just fine and everything passed as desired.
Now IntelliJ also has additional unit testing support.
So IntelliJ can help you with build dependency management
by setting up the dependencies here for Maven or Gradle.
It can also handle the auto creation of test classes
and test method stubs and a lot of other features
and so if you'd like to get more details
on IntelliJ specific testing support,
go to the link that I have here on the slide.